Dr. Conte's Cheesecake
----------------------

This rich, creamy cheesecake uses more sour cream than cream cheese in the 
filling, creating a softer, slightly tangier custard than the NY variety. Try it 
topped with a can or two of cherry or blueberry pie filling.

Servings: about 12
Time: about 30 mins prep, 30-35 mins baking, ~1 hour to cool and 2-4 days to 
      chill and fully set. Plan to make at least 2 days ahead.


Crust:
1-3/4 cups graham cracker crumbs (from about 13 full sheets, see note below)
1/4 cup walnuts, finely chopped (if not using nuts, use 2 full cups of graham 
    crackers instead of 1-3/4 cups)
1/2 tsp cinammon
1/2 cup melted butter or margarine (margarine tends to work better)

Notes:  To make graham cracker crumbs, break graham crackers to fit into a food 
        processor and pulse until fine crumbs, scraping sides as needed to break 
        up all crackers.  If you don't have a food processor, break up graham 
        crackers into a large sealable (ziplock) bag and break up using rolling 
        pin or mallet.  
        To chop nuts, either use food processor, a manual nut chopper/grinder, 
        or chop finely with a knife. 

1.  Measure and add 1-3/4 cups graham cracker crumbs to mixing bowl with 
    remaining crust ingredients.  
2.  Mix together until crust has the consistency of wet sand, and empty into a 
    10" springform pan.  
3.  Press crust into the sides first, then with remaining mixture, spread evenly
    on bottom of pan and press down to form the bottom of the crust.


Filling:
3 large eggs
2 8oz packages Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, softened (to quickly soften, 
    microwave on medium power for about 40 seconds)
1 cup sugar
1/2 tsp salt
2 tsp vanilla extract
1/2 tsp almond extract
3 cups (24 fl ounces) sour cream

1.  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  
2.  In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer, add eggs and beat well.  
3.  Add cream cheese, sugar, salt, vanilla extract, and almond extract, and beat
    until just smooth (note: there should still be pellet-sized pieces of cream 
    cheese, so don't overbeat).
4.  Stir in (don't beat) sour cream, then pour filling into crust.
5.  Bake at 375 degrees F for 30-35 minutes or until filling appears to be just 
    set (like Jello) - the very center of the cake may still appear a bit 
    liquidy, but will firm up as the cheesecake cools and chills.
6.  When you remove the cheesecake from the oven, carefully run a thin knife or 
    spatula along the edge to loosen the cake from the pan. This helps prevent 
    cracking as it cools.
7.  Cool in pan for about 1 hour at room temperature, then remove sides.  
8.  With bottom of springform pan still attached, chill in refrigerator for 2-4 
    days.
9.  To serve, either slice and serve as-is, or top with cherry or blueberry pie 
    filling before serving.
